,Thread_Name,Initial_Post_or_Comment,Author,Response_To,Thread_Content,Time_Stamp
0,Uber API Restrictions Controversy,0,Simon Ustoyev,Simon Ustoyev,"I found 2 articles (one siting the other), which describe controversies around Uber's restrictions of its data.  There may not be as much limitation on using Uber's data for some downstream analysis, as oppose to the limitations as to how you can use this data and the type of products you are allowed to develop based on this data.  In the article, Uber cut off access to its API for a Boston based startup which was looking to provide price comparisons between major ride-hailing services.  There's a possibility that this move by Uber could violate antitrust law.  Ironically, Uber itself relies on 3rd party API for maps, payments and messaging.
This article essentially demonstrates that while a 3rd party, private data provider, like Uber, may increase or promote a wider use of its data, it may also decrease or impose on the scope of what can be built on top of its data.
http://fortune.com/2016/06/06/harvard-uber-api-restrictions/
http://www.benedelman.org/news-053116/","June 20, 2020 10:57:19 PM EDT"
1,RE: Uber API Restrictions Controversy,1,Subhalaxmi Rout,Simon Ustoyev,"Interesting post, Simon! Due to Uber API restriction, there are benefits and flaws. The benefit is API restrictions are designed solely to advance the companyÕs business interests by blocking competition. So, Uber alone controls information about the price and availability of its vehicles. Due to the restrictions, a third-party company uses real-time information about vehicle location (how many minutes until a vehicle can pick up a passenger at a given location) impacted.","June 21, 2020 8:28:50 PM EDT"
2,Freedom of Information Act (FoIA),0,Habib Khan,Habib Khan,"The Freedom of Information Act is a federal freedom of information law that requires the full or partial disclosure of previously unreleased information and documents controlled by US government if requested. It has somehow discouraged government officials to follow the constitution and facilitate the US Citizens as per the role in government. The citizens can always ask for the information, evaluate and criticize those decisions. 
Reference:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_Information_Act_(United_States)","June 19, 2020 10:19:01 PM EDT"
3,NBA Play by Play,0,Steven Ellingson,Steven Ellingson,"Detailed play by play statistics used to be available for free for the National Basketball Association. Amateur analysts were taking that data and coming up with metrics to evaluate basketball players. Tons of interesting work was being done.  Then it was gone.   I'm not 100% sure if the NBA itself provided the data or if there was a company that was providing it for free that started monetizing, but it became completely inaccessible to most of us. 

More than anything, this is a bummer for those of us who like to sports analysis in our free time.  There was so much interesting information in those datasets, and most of us aren't going to pay to get it as we aren't getting paid for our work.","June 23, 2020 11:18:52 PM EDT"
4,Fintech Data Aggregators,0,Jagdish Chhabria,Jagdish Chhabria,"One area where there have been many interesting twists and turns over the past decade has been that of financial data aggregators such as Mint (owned by Intuit), Yodlee (owned by Investnet) and Plaid (owned by Visa) that allow customers to download an app (mobile or desktop) and aggregate their banking, investment and other data held with different institutions and providers in a single consolidated view. There seem to be 2 ways for these data aggregators to access this data - either through an API or through screen scraping. Also there are differences in how these aggregators set up the initial authentication and on-boarding process of connecting to a ""new"" account. In general, it looks like initially many banks were fine with providing this access as long as customers provided the permission, but over time, a combination of regulatory scrutiny about customer data privacy, data security and lastly the evolution of their own business models to monetize or come up with their own competing services (typically as a consortium) kicks in and they start limiting access or the mechanism of access available to the data aggregators. For example, it seems you can integrate a Bank of America account on the Mint app but not a PNC bank account. It's hard to argue that each bank is taking its own view of data privacy and security. To me, it seems more of a business strategy being played out as banks who initially let fintechs take the lead to figure out if a business model is viable are now wanting to enter the game themselves. 
In any case, the data aggregators could find themselves in trouble if more banks restrict access via screen scraping  - at the very least they'll need to make changes to their data access layer in case the API changes. Some could even see a significant change in cost of business. It seems safe to say that while ""Data is the new Oil"", it's important to keep an eye on who owns the drilling infrastructure and when they may decide to start their own refineries and gas stations.","June 24, 2020 7:37:48 AM EDT"
5,Provider In/Out network data accessibility,0,Vijaya Cherukuri,Vijaya Cherukuri,"Provider In/Out network data accessibility :
Whenever there is a need to visit hospitals or doctors we might take an appointment and go to the hospital/physician.We dont know wheter the doctor/physician is IN/Out network to the health insurance.
Health insurance companies charges seprate maximum out of pocket charges and diagnosis charges for Out network when compared to IN network doctors/hospitals/physicians.
We have lack of data availability to check whether the doctors/hospitals/physicians is IN network or not. If we have ability to see this data then we can choose the nearest IN network physician and get the medication.Good example is if IN network maximum out of pocket is 3k then for OUT netowrk it will be around 6K.
All of us will be benefitted if we have the availability of data to check who is IN network or not.","June 19, 2020 7:06:23 PM EDT"
6,RE: Provider In/Out network data accessibility,1,Sheryl Piechocki,Vijaya Cherukuri,"Vijaya,
Transparency is needed in all aspects of the health care system.  One never knows what their bill will be if they go to the doctor.  We cannot shop around.  The ability to compare provider costs would greatly benefit the consumers.","June 20, 2020 10:23:44 PM EDT"
7,RE: Provider In/Out network data accessibility,2,Simon Ustoyev,Vijaya Cherukuri,"The cost information, I would think, is not available as it depends on your medical case or situation.  However, In/Out of network data and co-pay data should be available through the insurance provider.  Perhaps such data should be more readily available and accessible in a convenient UI or API form.","June 22, 2020 11:51:33 PM EDT"
8,Facebook's Graph API,0,Zachary Alexander,Zachary Alexander,"This is actually a very timely article, since recently a friend reached out to me asking if I could assist in a project that required utilizing Facebook's Graph API to search for relevant statuses and posts based on a certain set of keywords. I have worked with Twitter's API in the past, and was interested in diving into Facebook's Graph API a bit given the context I'm learning in this course. I found documentation online to utilize Facebook's API to conduct this keyword search, however, I realized when running the script, the function(s) I used had been deprecated. One in particular was the searchFacebook() function. After doing some investigative work, a few of the functions had been deprecated back in 2015 when Facebook did a massive overhaul of it's API.
Although I was hoping to work with a friend on a small project, as mentioned in the Wall Street Journal Article, these changes have huge implications for company's and developers that rely heavily on this data to create third-party applications. These changes over the past couple years have limited the types of things startups and entrepreneurs are able to do with social network data, and some would argue that it stymies the growth of the field. I do think that many of these changes are positive for social network users, and allows for broader protections of privacy of information and data. It'll be interesting to see how this progresses over the next few years, as a person's individual ""data"", whether it be social network data, health data, financial data, etc., is becoming more of a central part of one's capital. As we can see, this change by Facebook has limited me and my friend's ability to do any downstream analysis (or at least making us go back to the drawing board), and for product development, it's completely changed the way certain startups develop their products and what types of ideas will be successful in the future.","June 19, 2020 1:18:34 PM EDT"
9,Patriot Act,0,Mikhail Kollontai,Mikhail Kollontai,"Passed shortly after 9/11 during a time of heightened fear and paranoia, the Patriot Act significantly altered access to a wide swath of data on everyday Americans' communications. The trouble is that the access to the data was opened up to the government and no one else, allowing for unprecedented surveillance by various branches of the government without previously proven cause and court-approved warrants. The passage of this bill was widely supported by both parties; public sentiment at the time was something akin to ""whatever it takes to keep us safe"". It was a time when the public was so worried about what would come next, it was ready to accept a rule that allowed the government to spy on it without any real oversight.
What seems interesting to me is that the act has since been renewed consistently every time it has needed to. On May 19, 2020 a provision allowing the government to search a citizens browser history was added.  (https://thenextweb.com/security/2020/05/14/the-us-senate-just-voted-to-let-the-fbi-access-your-browser-history-without-a-warrant/)
Obviously access to such a glut of information can provide invaluable intelligence to law-enforcement agencies. The merit of such measures though assume that it will never be used inappropriately.In light of what we have been seeing over the last month or so I think that assumption needs to be closely looked at and re-evaluated.","June 18, 2020 6:54:32 PM EDT"
10,RE: Patriot Act,1,Habib Khan,Mikhail Kollontai,"Hello Mikhail,
That was a good topic. Thanks for sharing.
Regards,
Habib Khan","June 19, 2020 10:10:56 PM EDT"
11,RE: Patriot Act,2,Sheryl Piechocki,Mikhail Kollontai,"Mikhail,
Excellent example and topic!  The government uses times of heightened fear to expand its power.  They claim it is being done to protect the people at these times, but as you note, it quickly becomes a rule of law.  Some have theorized that the government likes to keep the people in a state of fear.  This allows them to pass these sorts of acts that increase regulations and surveillance, and sometimes increase taxation.  Privacy is invaded and freedoms are reduced. 
Will the COVID-19 pandemic lead to new regulations?","June 20, 2020 10:20:23 PM EDT"
12,General Data Protection Regulation,0,Jithendra Seneviratne,Jithendra Seneviratne,"The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is popularly known as 'the right to be forgotten'. The EU regulation lays out how and when data can be collected, processed and erased. It (theoretically at least) gives users of social media platforms more agency, and more protection. Perhaps the catalyst for the GDPR was the Cambridge Analytica scandal, where user data was used for highly unethical psychological profiling and manipulation.","June 18, 2020 10:17:47 PM EDT"
13,RE: General Data Protection Regulation,1,Priya Shaji,Jithendra Seneviratne,Good information! Perhaps GDPR needs to be followed by many organizations.,"June 20, 2020 7:48:31 PM EDT"
14,LinkedIn,0,Sheryl Piechocki,Sheryl Piechocki,"In 2015, LinkedIn restricted some of their public APIs accessibility to only partners of LinkedIn (e.g. Samsung, Evernote).  The company said restrictions were put in place because not all the applications being developed by third parties were providing value.  The connections, groups and people search APIs would no longer be available to non-partner developers.   In addition, permissions were put in place to restrict access to some of the APIs to only administrators or to require LinkedIn approval.
Many third-party developers that had LinkedIn data integrated were affected by this change.  Some of them were job board apps and apps that showed users their network.  Not having access to the connections API greatly affects any network analysis.  
By restricting access to this data, more traffic will go through LinkedIn or its partners thus increasing potential ad revenue.
https://venturebeat.com/2015/02/12/linkedin-revamps-its-developer-program-to-focus-on-partnerships-will-limit-its-apis-on-may-12-2015/","June 18, 2020 4:43:19 PM EDT"
15,RE: LinkedIn,1,Zachary Alexander,Sheryl Piechocki,"Thanks for posting this, Sheryl -- your points made me think about the ramifications this may have for access to data in the future. As an aside, I'm a strong proponent for broader privacy protections for users, but API restrictions such as these could also lead to negative consequences of allowing a few large tech companies (i.e. LinkedIn, Facebook, etc.), harnessing all of the individual data capital. As discussions develop about one's data being an instrumental piece of their identity in the future, it'll be interesting to see how this all plays out! Anyways, appreciated your post!

Best,
Zach","June 19, 2020 1:23:01 PM EDT"
16,RE: LinkedIn,2,Murat Akyildirim,Sheryl Piechocki,"I believe since the restriction of the use of the api, some developers scrape linkein profiles and connections in order to access the data. (Regardless of the data being behind the login) I think stricter data privacy rules are ahead of us. Thank you for sharing!","June 24, 2020 2:19:26 PM EDT"
17,Managing impacts of data changes,0,Elina Azrilyan,Elina Azrilyan,"The following article discusses the approach to managing changes in the APIs used for Shopify App and brings up a lot of interesting questions about down-steam data dependences we are discussing this week. Shopify is a Canadian website that allows a person to manage, market and sell their product, and APIs are widely used by tens of thousands of partners. A new versions are released quarterly to minimize the impact of changes and the changes are clearly marked and breaking and non-breaking to make sure that all required diligence is applied. Similar approach should be taken on data availability, if there is a regulatory or financial reasons for the change in data level access - there should be a significant thought given to such changes. If facebook data availability decreases - there should be a way to view a subset of the data anonymously if at all possible. 

https://engineering.shopify.com/blogs/engineering/shopify-manages-api-versioning-breaking-changes","June 18, 2020 4:22:19 PM EDT"
18,Google's monetization of Google Maps API,0,Abdellah Ait Elmouden,Abdellah Ait Elmouden,"Last year Google announced a new pricing strategy for users of their previously free Google Maps API in which depending on monthly user flow, they now charge a significant amount of money to the creators. Many developers claimed that the new strategy killed some of their larger projects. Other developers were forced to switch to other map system like Apple Maps, or OpenStreet map.","June 17, 2020 6:47:50 PM EDT"
19,RE: Google's monetization of Google Maps API,1,Mikhail Kollontai,Abdellah Ait Elmouden,I think this is an unfortunate but inevitable result when an app grows to such popularity without having an obvious revenue stream - there is simply too much untapped potential to let that go to waste and a company is loathe to let that go.,"June 17, 2020 6:57:13 PM EDT"
20,Available Real Estate and Brokerage Data,0,Murat Akyildirim,Murat Akyildirim,"Scraping data from web and applications along with use of different provided apis have increased in the recent years with the hopes of generating leads for marketing and sales teams. Prior to the recent privacy changes developers were able to scrape and use data from linkedin, twitter, foursquare and even real estate portals such as trulia or zillow. Zillow used to offer free access to their listing database along with the real estate brokers in the past, which helped individual local Real Estate Firms (such as Exit, Coach and etc… in certain locations) to collect and use this information. These small local firms and even individual brokers were able to work with developers to collect and consolidate the available data from Zillow and create their own web property to acquire consumers.
With the recent data privacy changes and the change in the business model, Zillow now requires individual real estate firms and brokers to sign up for membership in order to receive this data. They also have a new program where they share consumer information from the data they collect via their newsletter.","June 17, 2020 3:41:59 PM EDT"
21,Deprecated Financial Data APIs,0,Mael Illien,Mael Illien,"The Google Yahoo Finance APIs were the go to API for acquiring free financial data. A lot of apps using data from these APIs abruptly lost their data source when the services were either deprecated or became service users needed to pay for. These days, there are ways to connect to the yahoo api but the endpoints are few and the documentation poor. Many alternatives such an Quandl, Alpha Vantage, etc have sprung up to fill that hole in demand. These sources offer free access to data up to a certain number of calls a day, and paid versions for premium access.
While in some cases switching the data source can be as simple as changing the python library you are using, in others, entire databases relying on a previous source of data may need to be recreated and the code to update it rewritten. This makes the case for abstraction in object oriented programming where data handler components should be written in such a way that swapping a data source leaves the rest of the program’s execution unaffected.
In operations where lots of money is traded and timing can be critical, losing a data source is a big problem and the implications serious for a business as was the case in the examples mentioned in the reading. This brings to the forefront the issue of relying on third parties for data sources and the way to preserve the continuity and integrity of data.","June 18, 2020 12:09:48 PM EDT"
22,Electronic health records,0,Priya Shaji,Priya Shaji,"Electronic health records have been widely adopted across healthcare organizations large and small. While there are many benefits to EHRs like improved accessibility to patient data, increased charge capture and improved preventative health , there are inherent problems in adopting this technology.

Since EHRs allow for easier access to sensitive information, there is an increased risk of privacy violations. These may include intentional ""snooping"" or may be accidental by using improper security measures. But there are many systems that have implemented a forensics piece to track what files are accessed when and by whom.

Taking the time to evaluate new technology and   implement a new process, such as to evaluate workflows and identify and eliminate waste before implementing a new EHR system, will help improve implementation, foster communication, decrease non-value added work and ultimately increase adoption.

More information on EHRs: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5171496/","June 18, 2020 1:34:15 PM EDT"
23,RE: Electronic health records,1,Vijaya Cherukuri,Priya Shaji,"Great information Priya.
EHR is a sensitive data. With enhanced ability to identify who is accessing the data and more information of how they are collecting can reduce the risk.","June 19, 2020 7:13:09 PM EDT"
24,RE: Electronic health records,2,Abdellah Ait Elmouden,Priya Shaji,"Electronic Health Records Can Improve Patient Care, but the largest technology companies benefit more Including Microsoft and Apple because they they could create products for the health industry.","June 20, 2020 7:03:43 PM EDT"
25,Flight Prices - Skyscanner,0,Amber Ferger,Amber Ferger,"Access to travel information has increased drastically over the past decade or so. With so many airlines to choose from, some companies have found success in providing a one-stop-shop for flight information across airlines. This allows users to more easily compare prices, flight times, and durations when making their travel decisions. Some companies, like Skyscanner, have taken this a step further by providing developers with access to this information through a RESTful API. The company appears to be marketing to website owners -- a quick look at their website specifically markets the use of the API to build websites allowing users to search for information themselves.
Any company looking to provide the search functionality to their users (ex: travel sites) can benefit directly from this information. Rather than having the user go to another site to compare flight information and prices, they can view everything in one spot. This provides for a seamless user experience and might influence a customer's decision to use the site again. 
Unfortunately, any business that utilizes this information as a main component of their website is at the hands of skyscanner. Should skyscanner remove access to the information, an entire component of a company's business model might be removed. This is similar to what happened with Google's deprecation of the Google Flights API...many users that were dependent on this information were left scrambling trying to find an alternative solution.","June 17, 2020 11:05:17 AM EDT"
26,RE: Flight Prices - Skyscanner,1,Ken Popkin,Amber Ferger,"Good example for this discussion, and your note that any business using this API is at the hands of SkyScanner is definitely a risk worth considering. 
I wouldn't expect there to be privacy issues like Facebook has been dealing with.  But, I could see SkyScanner make an effort to monetize their API's, at which point the ROI for some businesses would not be high enough to continue using this data.","June 17, 2020 9:27:25 PM EDT"
27,Twitter web-based data restriction,0,Subhalaxmi Rout,Subhalaxmi Rout,"Twitter restricted access data after the New York Times revealed that Facebook had given device makers deep access to data on Facebook users and their friends, via device-integrated APIs. The goal of twitter is ensuring platform safety and promoting the privacy and safety of users, and providing a level playing field commercially.
Who was impacted negatively by these changes?
Third-party developers are negatively impacted since their business model relied on users' data. Twitter removed more than 143,000 apps that violated its policies between April and June 2018, and they are continuing to invest in building out improved tools and processes to help them stop malicious apps faster and more efficiently.
Who impacted positively by these changes?
Twitter users are impacted positively because their data has not been exploited. Twitter has given users more control over their data by making privacy settings easily accessible.
What implications if any are there from the standpoint of being able to use this data in downstream analysis and/or product development?
The changes will impact multiple developer-facing APIs, including those used to create social experiences on the site, as well as those for media partners, and more. Many third-party developers will look elsewhere (other social media platforms) to collect user data to innovate and stay in business. I also think the availability of data helped many developers create innovative products. These products make us efficient and add value to our lives. Due to some bad actors, a lot of good work has been impacted.
Reference:  https://blog.twitter.com/developer/en_us/topics/tools/2018/new-developer-requirements-to-protect-our-platform.html","June 16, 2020 8:59:25 PM EDT"
28,RE: Twitter web-based data restriction,1,Amber Ferger,Subhalaxmi Rout,"Great example! Any developer that uses third-party information as a key component to their business is at the mercy of the third-party and the twitter data restriction is a great example of that. Apps, sites, and businesses that rely heavily on previously-available data have to adapt or go under.","June 17, 2020 11:08:27 AM EDT"
29,Stock Market Data,0,Ken Popkin,Ken Popkin,"In 2006, I read a book called ""Rule 1 Investing"" by Phil Towne.  In sum, the book shared a value based (think Warren Buffett) approach to find stocks to invest in. I decided to write my own application that would input a large number of stocks, complete my analysis, and provide a recommendation. (I was sure I'd become wealthy :)
I wrote the application, but when it came time to start analyzing in bulk, I hit a snag.  The lowest priced real-time stock prices subscription that I could find would run me a few thousand per year for the raw data I needed. I ended up becoming really good at screen scraping (And in case you're wondering, ""Nope, I didn't become wealthy).
This evening, I did a similar search on real-time stock price subscription services. Here's my perception based on a quick review of the search results...
1. there are more companies offering this type of service
2. finding articles comparing stock services is easier, i.e. titles like ""Best Free Real-Time Stocks for Day Traders"", ""API for Free Real-Time Stock Market Data"", etc...
3. I looked at prices for three companies promoting real-time stock API's.  Two of them where charging several hundred per month (same as my experience in 2006).  But, one called Alpha Advantage looks promising and says they are free.
So, in sum my perception is that real-time stock data (and other information about stocks) is more available today than it was ten-plus years ago and is offered by more providers.  As for price, maybe it's cheaper too, but you still have to search pretty hard to find a good deal (if there really is one).
(Note: this is a biased comparison as I spent days/weeks in 2007 on this research, versus minutes on my search for this discussion).","June 15, 2020 9:10:24 PM EDT"
30,RE: Stock Market Data,1,Jack Russo,Ken Popkin,"That's fascinating! At the end of the day there really dosen't appear to be free lunch here. Even if the data you needed to automate your strategy becomes affordable do to availability and competition, the consequence  will be more investors applying the same strategy.","June 16, 2020 5:22:23 PM EDT"
31,RE: Stock Market Data,2,Mael Illien,Ken Popkin,"I wrote a discussion post on the same issue. I have been using https://finnhub.io/ as my API of choice these days. I don't pay for any of the data so I have to introduce calls to sleep() every so often in order to avoid overloading the 60 api calls per minute offered under the free plan. This is kind of a problem if speed of execution is an issue. If I am updating 600 stocks, it will take 10 minutes, which is fine for a daily strategy, but not so much for an intraday one. Since I don't intend to trade 600 stocks at once, I could get data down to the minute by making prioritized calls to get the tickers of interest and updating the remainder at a later time in off market hours. Otherwise, payment for data remains an option but it can add up to be a significant cost as you've mentioned.","June 18, 2020 12:18:15 PM EDT"
32,RE: Stock Market Data,3,Steven Ellingson,Ken Popkin,"This is very interesting. Stock data is interesting because everyone wants to make money on the stock market and it's so competitive. 

I will have to look into Alpha Vantage. I don't expect to get rich :)  but it could be fun!  Thanks for sharing.","June 23, 2020 11:23:22 PM EDT"
33,RE: Stock Market Data,4,Jagdish Chhabria,Ken Popkin,"Nice observations. In general, the initial data collectors for stock prices in the US (NYSE, NASDAQ, CME) and distributors (Bloomberg, Refinitiv) will always have priority in deciding who they sell this data to and how much their charge. So retail investors who believe they will somehow strike it rich by writing a few lines of Python code will always be at the mercy of upstream access changes to the underlying data. The online brokerages typically provide stock screening services sitting on top of the data they have, but don't act as straight-up data providers. In any case, it's not free, because one needs to open an account with them which typically has some cost associated with it.","June 24, 2020 7:44:47 AM EDT"
34,RE: Stock Market Data,5,Murat Akyildirim,Ken Popkin,I had no idea there was a free option. I did get burned(still burning) with a stock investment so i have no intension to ever invest in stocks but thank you for sharing.,"July 10, 2020 10:00:27 AM EDT"
35,EU GDP - Small to large.,0,Jack Russo,Jack Russo,"In April 2018 the EU General Data protection act went into force restricting what data could be shared inside and outside the EU. While this seemed to be common sense privacy protection It did restrict what information charaties could be shared about sucessfull aproaches to their work.
Review the article here.
https://www.economist.com/business/2018/04/05/europes-tough-new-data-protection-law","June 16, 2020 5:14:00 PM EDT"
36,RE: EU GDP - Small to large.,1,Jithendra Seneviratne,Jack Russo,"I made a post about the GDPR as well. I don't have access to The Economist unfortunately. Anyhow, after the Cambridge Analytica scandal, it seemed imperative that regulations were set in place. Clearly there would be drawbacks, but I believe it was a necessary step.","June 20, 2020 4:47:48 PM EDT"
